Database design - organistaion of data according to a database model

1/ Determining data to be stored
must be determined in cooperation with a person does have expertise in that domain 
and who is aware of what data must be stores within the system
-->  a part of requirements analysis 
and requires skill on the part of the database designer 
to elicit the needed information from those with the domain knowledge
--> Requirement Specification

2/ Determining data relationships
Once a database designer is aware of the data which is to be stored within the database,
they must then determine where dependency is with the data.

3/ Logically structuring data

Once the relationship and dependencies amongst the various pieces of information have determined
it is possible to arrange the data into a logical structure
which can then be mappped into the storage objects supported by the database management system

In Relational Database, the storage objects are tables.

4/ ER diagram - entity relationship model


5/ Design process

  1. Determine the purpose of database
  2. Find and organize the information required
     Gather all of the types of information to record in the database such as product name and order number
     
  3. Divide the information into tables
     Divide information items into major entities or subjects 
  
  4. Turn information items into columns
    Decide what information needs to be stored in each table 
    Each item becomes a field and is displayed as a column in the table.
    
  5. Specify primary keys
    Primary key is uniquely each row
    
  6. Set up the table relationships
    Decide how the data in one table is related to the data in other tables
    
  7. Refine the design
    Analyze the design for errors.
    
  8. Apply the normalization rules
  

6/ Normalization

In the field of relational database design, 
normalization is a systematic way of ensuring that a datavase structure is suitable for general-purpose.

Conceptual schema

Schema refinement

Physical design



